[MUSIC]
>> Scott Moss: What I wanna do now,
actually is we're actually gonna hook our
Todo app up to the server,
but there is no server.
So we need to make a quick server,
right quick.
And it's gonna take like one second, you
don't even have to write any code really.
So if you could just head
over to your terminal, and
if you just type in npm install,
I'm gonna put i for
short, and --save json-server.
You can do this locally or
globally, it's up to you.
I already have it globally.
So actually, I'm just gonna install it
globally to make sure, so json-server.
So this, literally,
you give it a JSON file and
it creates a RESTful server for you.
It's super easy.
So, we'll just have this JSON Server here.
So once you have that, just head over
to the app that we're working on.
And on the root of the app,
just create a new file,
and you can call it data, or db.json.
And it's just gonna be a JSON file
that has a todos property whose
value is a empty array.
And that's it, that's all you gotta do.
>> Scott Moss: So just make any
filename you want, I put db.json.
And just make sure this is an object
with the todos array in it.
That's it.
So once you have that, and
once you have json-server started,
in a new tab, you can just run
json-server followed by the name
of the file you wanna serve,
it's database.json.
And hit Enter, it created a new
API Server right here on 3000.
And we can actually go take a look at it.
It's pretty cool if you
haven't used this before.
There it is.
Here's our JSON Server.
Here's our resource, has a todos
resource that we can do CRUD on.
So we can post to this todos like this.
So I can come in here and
I can post whatever I want,
I can say http localhost:3000/todos.
And I wanna create a new todo
that has a name called cleanup.
And I posted it and it gave it a id of 1.
And then the value that I posted,
which was cleanup.
So now if I go look at it,
it should be there.
There it is.
And it also, it does that because
it has rights to the file.
>> Scott Moss: Pretty cool, so
that's gonna be our API server for
our app right quick.
So we have that, if you just-
>> Speaker 2: What was the command to
start it?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, the command was
the exact same with the package,
it's just json-server
followed by the file.
Which in this case,
was whatever file you wanted to use.
I used db.json.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, so if you just
run that, you've got a RESTful server.
You can do all CRUD on it,
not just POST or GET, like, anything.
It's pretty cool.
Pretty good way to prototype some stuff.
All right, so now, once you have that,
then the challenge is or
the exercise is going to be actually,
get, go away.
It's gonna be actually using the server
instead of, let's go up to the todo.
Instead of storing our state
locally here in the component,
we're gonna use the server to
fetch the data, the state, and
post it back to the server
when we change it.
So I'll start off with just one
example what that will look like.
So first, let's say,
let me switch this back,
>> Scott Moss: To Todo.
>> Scott Moss: Is it still running?
Did I stop it?
Naw, I didn't stop it,
let's just run it again just in case.
So an example of that would be,
let's actually just create a todo and
see how that will look like.
So on create todo, which is on this Press
right here, instead of setting the state,
what I would do is,
I'm gonna comment that out for now.
I don't even really need
the todos either right now either.
So on Press, what I would do is I would
just get the todo value, which would be,
>> Scott Moss: this.state.newTodo,
I would just say fetch and
method, post, body,
which would be the body that
I wanna post of the new Todo.
So I'll say all todos
have a name property, and
that name property is gonna
be this.state.newTodo.
And headers, I'll say Content-Type,
which is application/json,
so I'll do that.
>> Scott Moss: And
then I'll do the same thing we did before,
which was get the json, and
then get the data back.
I don't know what JSON Server sends back.
Hopefully it'll send back the whole thing.
And then we'll do
this.setState with that data.
>> Scott Moss: With
the new todos actually.
So then, yeah, this is where we'll
update the new todos with that state.
>> Scott Moss: So this has state.todos
plus that data that came back.
So something like that.
>> Scott Moss: So
let's see if this actually works.
So first thing, I forgot to put the url.
There we go,
that's the most important thing.
So localhost:3000/todos.
There we go, so now when we press it,
it should go out there and
then we also wanna do this, too.
>> Scott Moss: There we go.
But this is going to break
because it is now todo.name.
So now if we type in some stuff,
let me refresh just to make sure
the hot reload is not sticking.
There we go, and I say clean up, hit make,
it looks like something happened.
Let's look at the,
I don't have the server on, oops.
>> Scott Moss: Let's turn it on.
There we go.
>> Scott Moss: I'll turn the server on.
>> Scott Moss: I got it, there we go.
Cool, turn the server on, clean up,
make and we get error string.
Dynamic type string but had type object,
constructing arguments.
Yeah, you have to actually JSON
stringify this yourself, I forgot.
And again, this is not React Native,
this is literally window.fetch.
You gotta do this in a web too.
It's kind of aggravating.
Why have to stringify this myself?
Why do I have to say
application type JSON?
It should just know.
But, you have to do it yourself.
That's what it was freaking out about.
>> Scott Moss: There we go.
>> Scott Moss: Okay,
why are you still freaking out?
Let's see, maybe it didn't refresh.
>> Scott Moss: What do you want?
All right, let's see,
maybe they changed this.
>> Scott Moss: They don't
even have it in their docs.
[LAUGH]
>> Scott Moss: Well, that's awesome.
>> Scott Moss: Luckily it's a web standard
and we can just look it up elsewhere.
>> Scott Moss: Or
the best place is GitHub,
fetch polyfill.
There we go.
>> Scott Moss: Okay,
looks like I was wrong.
It was actually like this.
>> Scott Moss: url still goes first,
object is still gonna be second there.
That's what it was freaking out about.
Live debugging.
>> Scott Moss: All right,
now, if we do this.
>> Scott Moss: Unexpected URL,
okay, http, there we go.
>> Scott Moss: There we go, okay, sweet.
So that one worked this time.
I got an unhandled promise rejection,
which is what I was expecting.
But it definitely went through.
I just need to actually catch this
error to see what was going on.
I'm not gonna do that right now.
We'll do that in the solution.
Sweet, so that's what you need to do
now using your API, just go ahead and
post to the API, and then figure out
how to get it back from the API and
list it in your application.
And however you want to do that,
that's totally up to you.
There's a few ways you can do it.
But we'll do that, and
then it is 2:37 now,
we'll come back at 3:00 and
we'll go over the solution.